Hagar's Welcome back to the course in this lecture.
Let's talk a little bit about how you decide on what design you should use and whether or not it's even
really an important decision that you have to make at all.
OK so previously we talked about what is a design stack.
And again it's that sandwich of technologies that's going to go into the website you're making in the
mobile application you're parading.
Now since there are multiple ways of doing the same thing.
Occasionally people will have preferences about what language or design stack you use.
So right off the bat are you a programmer.
If you're a programmer I typically suggest working with the technology you're used to.
There's typically no reason why you should learn a new language.
It just doesn't really make sense or going to waste a lot of time and you might as well pick the one
that you're good at.
In general you can use any technology to build really anything.
There's a lot of niche technologies that you're going to have to hire a specialist for anyway.
Or maybe it's a niche that you want to focus on.
We'll cover that later.
But in general you can make the same web site and ph be that you can make it Ruby on Rails or you can
make in Python.
It really doesn't actually matter.
So if you already know one of them you're good at one of them.
Stick with that.
And in the future should you need to expand or offer a separate service for a different technology.
You can do that.
Now keep in mind in my experience especially I've never really had someone be picky about what language
I picked.
Maybe that's because we're a custom application development firm.
But in general no one's really come up to us and said You have to use this.
The only time it's really mattered is if someone came to us and said hey we already have something we
need you to change it or build on top of it.
And if that's the case and we don't understand their design stack or we don't work with it then we just
simply can't take the project.
So if you're not a programmer then the logic is pretty much the same logic or the same advice that they
give to startups.
A lot of startups came to me when I worked in venture capital and they would say hey I'm really concerned
about what technology we pick to build our application.
And I always said the same thing.
The technology itself doesn't actually matter.
I mean the differences between the two are the benefits to one and the disadvantages you another are
very very marginal.
There are things that you really can get over.
You can build anything in anything.
So what I always said was the technology doesn't matter focus on the people.
So that's the same thing I'm going to tell you and the same thing that helped us become successful.
When you go out and you serve start working with contractors and first building your team putting together
the pieces finding someone who can build each layer of the stack.
Focus on the people that give you the best results the ones that you can communicate with the best and
ignore the technology.
Inevitably you're going to have problems or one person can't work with another because of the technology
but you're always just going to have to default to which person is the best.
And if we're just going to have to go with the technology that they're good with that's the only thing
that really matters in the future you can expand and cast a wider net or you can take more projects
because all of a sudden you can offer more technologies but at the very beginning it just doesn't matter
you're still going to get 80 percent of the projects because even in the time people don't really care
what it's made in.
They just want it done well they want it done cheaply effectively and on time.
So focus on the people that are going to deliver that and the rest of it's just details.
It doesn't really matter.
OK guys.
Any other questions posed in the group discussion.
A private message.
Otherwise I'll see in the next lecture.